PREVIOUSLY ON "THE 100"...
DELILAH: SANCTUM WAS
COLONIZED BY A TEAM FROM EARTH
MADE UP OF 4 FAMILIES--
THE PRIMES.
RUSSELL: WE HAVE THE SAME
BLOOD, CLARKE, ROYAL BLOOD.
THAT'’S WHY THEY
WENT AFTER DELILAH.
MIRANDA: THE CHILDREN OF GABRIEL
TOOK MY ROSE.
WE KNOW THEY'’RE
STILL HERE.
WE'’LL SEARCH EVERYWHERE
INSIDE THE COMPOUND.
WOULD YOU BE SO CALM IF IT
WAS YOUR DAUGHTER'’S TURN?
I DIDN'’T KNOW
YOU HAD A DAUGHTER.
SHE DIED IN A FALL
6 YEARS AGO.
THERE ARE THINGS
AND PEOPLE IN THESE WOODS
THAT WANT US DEAD.
IF YOU FALL BEHIND,
YOU WILL BE.
MAN: CHILDREN OF GABRIEL,
GATHER ROUND.
-DEATH TO PRIMES!
-DEATH TO PRIMES! DEATH TO...
WE'’VE GOT
THE PRIMES AND THE GUNS.
LET'’S TAKE OUR WIN
AND GO HOME.
BELLAMY: OCTAVIA,
THEY'’LL KILL OUR PEOPLE.
DO NOT ENGAGE.
-UH!
-HYAH!
BELLAMY: YOU'’RE ON YOUR OWN.
OCTAVIA: WHAT ARE YOU
GONNA DO, LEAVE ME HERE?
YEAH, FOR YOUR OWN GOOD.
FINE. SHOULD HAVE
DIED IN THAT GORGE, ANYWAY.
DON'’T WORRY.
I'’LL SHOW YOU HOW.
IMPROVISE, ADAPT.
OVERCOME.
GOOD THING
THERE'’S NO MARINES LEFT.
I'’D NEVER HEAR THE END
OF IT FOR STEALING THAT.
COCKY BASTARDS.
ANYONE EVER TEACH YOU
IT'’S RUDE
TO SHINE A LIGHT
IN SOMEONE'’S FACE?
YOU SHOULD BE
MORE WORRIED ABOUT
YOURSELF RIGHT NOW.
DIYOZA: YOU'’RE GONNA
NEED MORE THAN 3 PEOPLE
TO TAKE ME OUT.
YOUR BABY NEEDS
A SAFE PLACE TO LIVE.
I CAN OFFER
YOU THAT.
I'’M LISTENING.
HELP US RETURN
THE CHILD--ROSE--
AND THE 3 HEADS OF
OUR FALLEN PRIMES,
AND RUSSELL PRIME--
HALLOWED BE HIS NAME--
WILL LET YOUR CHILD
BE RAISED IN SANCTUM.
MY CHILD BUT NOT ME.
THAT'’S THE OFFER.
TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT.
LET ME GUESS.
THE KID'’S YOURS.
NOT EXACTLY.
IT'’S MY DUTY TO
SERVE AND PROTECT
THE NEXT PRIME.
BODYGUARD. GOT IT.
BANG-UP JOB YOU DID THERE.
YOU KNOW, I, UM,
RETRIEVED THIS
TAKEN FROM YOUR
BELONGINGS.
THE PEOPLE WHO TOOK
ROSE NOW HAVE GUNS,
AND SO WILL YOU.
SO DO WE HAVE
A DEAL OR NOT?
ONE CONDITION.
I GET A BIKE.
YES. THIS ONE'’S
READY, TOO.
YOU THINK THEY'’VE
HARMED HER?
JADE WILL BRING ROSE
BACK TO US.
AND UNTIL
SHE DOES, I WISH
YOU'’D RECONSIDER
CANCELING NAMING DAY.
THE SHIELD IS UP.
THEY WON'’T GET BACK IN.
I'’M NOT WORRIED
ABOUT WHAT'’S OUTSIDE.
THEY HAD SKETCHES.
THEY KNEW
EXACTLY WHO TO TARGET
AND WHERE THEY LIVED.
WE NEED TO TELL
THE PEOPLE
SO THAT THEY
CAN BE ON GUARD.
WE NEED TO ACCEPT
THAT THEY HAVE SPIES
INSIDE SANCTUM.
WE LOST 3 PRIMES.
THEY TOOK ROSE,
ATTACKED DELILAH.
WHAT DO YOU WANT
ME TO DO?
WE BOTH KNOW THAT THAT
TIMING WAS NO COINCIDENCE.
THEY KNEW TODAY
WAS NAMING DAY.
CANCEL, RUSSELL.
PRIYA CAN WAIT.
WOULD YOU SAY THAT IF
IT WAS JOSEPHINE?
YEAH. IF WE CANCEL,
GABRIEL WINS.
SIMONE: WE DON'’T EVEN
KNOW IF HE'’S ALIVE.
HIS CAUSE CLEARLY IS.
I'’LL POST EXTRA GUARDS
AROUND DELILAH
JUST TO BE SAFE.
FINE. BUT NOT TOO CLOSE.
IT'’S HER DAY, AND I WON'T
HAVE IT RUINED BY FEAR.
MY PARENTS WOULD'’VE
LOVED IT HERE.
HEY. IT'’S MY NAMING DAY.
UNBURDEN. THAT'’S
WHAT WE DO TODAY.
ON NAMING DAY,
WE MAKE AMENDS
FOR THE THINGS WE FEEL
GUILTY FOR.
OK.
I TOLD YOU ABOUT
HOW I SPENT MY WHOLE
LIFE ON THE SHIP.
MM-HMM.
ALL THAT TIME,
IT WAS JUST US...
AND FACES BEHIND GLASS,
PEOPLE I COULDN'’T
TALK TO,
FRIENDS I COULDN'’T HAVE.
I WANTED TO KNOW THEM
SO BADLY. I WANTED...
THIS.
WHEN I DECIDED TO
GO INTO CRYO,
MY PARENTS SAID
THEY UNDERSTOOD,
EVEN THOUGH IT MEANT I'’D
NEVER SEE THEM AGAIN.
ALL PARENTS HAVE TO LET
THEIR KIDS GO SOMETIME.
EXCEPT THEY WEREN'’T
LETTING ME GO
'’CAUSE
I WASN'’T GONE.
I BECAME THE FACE
BEHIND THE GLASS.
I TAUNTED THEM,
AND I FEEL GUILTY
BECAUSE IT BROUGHT
ME HERE...
TO YOU.
YOU KNOW WHAT I THINK?
WE SHOULD TAKE HAPPINESS
WHILE WE CAN.
AHH. WON'’T YOU BE LATE?
OHH, I'’LL MAKE AMENDS.
I'’LL TAKE THAT.
THANK YOU.
THAT'’S BEAUTIFUL.
WITHOUT YOU,
NONE OF THIS WOULD'’VE
BEEN POSSIBLE TODAY.
TO THE GREAT HALL.
QUICKLY. AND BE CAREFUL.
THAT'’S SIMONE'S FAVORITE.
WHAT'’S
GOING ON?
I THINK IT'’S SOME
SORT OF CELEBRATION.
"WHAT'’S GOING ON"!
IT'’S NAMING DAY.
AND YOU'’RE
THE GUESTS OF HONOR.
JAE: HA HA HA! I KNOW.
A GOOD COOKIE CAN CHANGE
YOUR LIFE.
WOMAN: THERE SHE IS!
HERE'’S DELILAH!
WOMAN: YOU LOOK
SO BEAUTIFUL, DELILAH.
MY HERO.
-HOW ARE YOU FEELING?
-I FEEL GREAT.
CILLIAN: I'’LL BE THE JUDGE
OF THAT.
THIS WAY. LET'’S HAVE
A LOOK AT YOU. YOU, TOO.
LET'’S GO.
MMM! MMM!
THIS IS REALLY GOOD.
YOU RECOVERED FAST.
MMM. I KNOW.
A GOOD NIGHT'’S SLEEP.
SLEEP, HUH? IS THAT
WHAT THEY CALL IT HERE?
MM-HMM. MM-HMM.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
PRIYA I.
HALLOWED BE HER NAME.
YOU'’RE THE PILOT,
RIGHT?
YEAH.
I THINK YOU'’LL LIKE HER.
THEY HAD MOTORCYCLES?
STILL DO. THE MACHINE SHOPS
KEPT THEM RUNNING
FOR OVER 200 YEARS.
JOSIAH: COMING THROUGH!
JOSIAH,
BE CAREFUL WITH THAT.
WAIT. WHERE'’S
THE MACHINE SHOP?
LAST QUESTION:
WHAT DO YOU REMEMBER
FROM WHEN YOU WERE
PARALYZED?
ONLY EVERYTHING.
WELL, DON'’T WORRY.
AFTER TONIGHT, IT'’LL
BE LIKE IT NEVER
HAPPENED AT ALL.
YOU'’RE GOOD.
DELILAH: THANK YOU.
NOW FOR YOU.
I TOLD YOU, I'’M FINE.
WELL, I TOLD YOUR MOTHER
I'’D MAKE SURE OF THAT.
DAMN. I'’M GOOD.
SHE'’S FAIRLY INTENSE--
YOUR MOTHER.
I GRANTED HER ACCESS
TO OUR MEDICAL LIBRARY,
AND I'’M TOLD
SHE ASKED FOR A BED
TO BE BROUGHT IN.
YOU BEST KEEP
THIS COVERED...
UNLESS YOU WANT PEOPLE
TO WORSHIP YOU.
YEAH. THAT WOULD SUCK.
I HOPE I SEE YOU LATER.
HE'’S CUTE.
STOP.
SO IS THIS WHAT IT'’LL
BE LIKE FROM NOW ON?
WHY NOT?
I THINK WE DESERVE
A FRESH START,
DON'’T YOU?
DOES THAT MEAN
I CAN GO TO SCHOOL?
NO, MADI.
-CLARKE.
-HEY, WE'’VE TALKED ABOUT THIS.
YOU CHOSE TO BE
COMMANDER.
THAT COMES WITH
RESPONSIBILITIES.
WHAT DO YOU THINK'’S
GONNA HAPPEN?
NO ONE'’S GONNA FIND OUT
I'’M A NIGHTBLOOD.
QUIET. NOW, GAIA'’S
WAITING FOR YOU
AT THE SHIP
WITH MILLER AND JACKSON.
SHE TOLD ME ABOUT
SHEIDHEDA.
YOU KNOW YOU CAN
STEP DOWN, RIGHT?
TAKE OUT THE FLAME?
NO ONE WOULD BLAME YOU.
I WILL.
I'’LL GO TRAIN.
BLYTHE ANN: COME, EVERYONE.
WE DON'’T WANT TO MISS
THE OPENING CEREMONY.
MURPHY AND EMORI?
JORDAN: WENT TO GUARD
THE SHIP WITH THE OTHERS.
ECHO: MURPHY MISSING A CHANCE
TO ACT LIKE A DRUNKEN FOOL?
NOW I'’M WORRIED.
HE'’LL BE FINE.
MAYBE THE REST OF US
SHOULD GO THERE, TOO.
JORDAN: WHAT? NO.
I NEED THIS.
CLARKE: WE'’RE GUESTS
OF THE PRIMES.
IF WE ISOLATE OURSELVES
ON THE SHIP,
THEY MAY TAKE OFFENSE.
JORDAN?
GUYS, COME ON.
RAVEN: I'’LL BE AT THE BAR.
DELILAH: COME ON! YOU DON'’T
WANT TO MISS FIRST CONFESSION.
YOU LOOK
SO BEAUTIFUL.
WELCOME TO NAMING DAY.
TODAY WE OBSERVE
THE 4 PILLARS OF SANCTUM.
THEY ARE?
SPECTATORS: REPENT, RENEW,
REJOICE, REBIRTH.
RUSSELL: CORRECT. REBIRTH.
REBIRTH!
TODAY WE MARK THE RETURN
OF OUR BELOVED PRIYA...
SPECTATORS:
HALLOWED BE HER NAME.
RUSSELL: INDEED.
AS WE BEQUEATH HER NAME TO OUR
EQUALLY BELOVED DELILAH.
AS IS TRADITION
WITH EVERY NAMING DAY,
I WILL BEGIN THE PROCESS OF
MAKING AMENDS.
AS YOUR LEADER, IT'’S MY JOB
TO KEEP US SAFE
DURING THE RED SUN.
KAYLEE...
I FAILED YOU IN THIS
WHEN I REALIZED YOU
AND YOUR FAMILY
DIDN'’T MAKE IT
TO RYKER'’S KEEP
BEFORE THE ECLIPSE.
I CLOSED THE DOOR.
I KEPT IT OPEN
AS LONG AS I COULD
UNTIL THE LIFE OF
EVERYONE ELSE WAS
AT RISK.
IT WAS A DECISION
WITH TRAGIC
CONSEQUENCES.
I KNOW THE
HEARTBREAK YOU FEEL.
I KNOW YOUR PAIN.
I MISS JOSEPHINE EVERY DAY.
AND THE FACT THAT I'’M THE
CAUSE OF THIS PAIN FOR YOU...
THANK YOU.
RUSSELL:
AND NOW IT'’S YOUR TURN.
TELL YOUR NEIGHBOR THAT
YOU LOVE THEM.
MAKE AMENDS FOR THOSE
YOU'’VE HURT.
FREE YOURSELVES.
HEY. CAN I TALK TO YOU?
LET ME GUESS. I'’M
THE FIRST STOP ON
THE APOLOGY TOUR?
RAVEN, LISTEN TO ME, PLEASE.
I'’M SORRY...
FOR THE GORGE,
FOR MCCREARY
AND HIS ARMY, FOR SHAW.
SHUT UP.
KEEP HIM OUT OF THIS.
HE WANTED YOU TO BE
HAPPY, RAVEN.
HIS LAST WORDS WERE
THAT YOU DESERVED HAPPINESS.
YOU TURNED US IN.
GOOD PEOPLE DIED
BECAUSE OF YOU.
SHAW WAS TORTURED...
DO YOU KNOW WHAT?
YOUR PROBLEM ISN'’T
MAKING AMENDS, CLARKE.
EVERY TIME THAT YOU DO
SOMETHING HORRIBLE,
YOU SAY YOU'’RE SORRY.
AND THEN YOU DO IT
AGAIN.
CLARKE GRIFFIN AND HER
IMPOSSIBLE CHOICES.
AT LEAST HAVE THE BALLS
TO STAND BY THEM.
BELLAMY, THE GUY
THAT YOU LEFT TO DIE
IN A FIGHTING PIT,
LEFT HIS OWN SISTER
TO DIE IN THE WOODS
BECAUSE SHE WAS
A THREAT TO EVERYTHING
AND EVERYONE
SHE COMES
INTO CONTACT WITH.
WELL, GUESS WHAT.
THE ONLY DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN YOU AND HER
IS OCTAVIA DOESN'’T
PRETEND TO FEEL BAD
ABOUT IT.
TOSH: STOP LYING.
WE KNOW THE ONE CALLED
CLARKE IS A HOST.
-TAKE IT EASY.
-SHUT UP. SHE'’S GONNA TALK.
HOW MANY MORE BLACK BLOODS
CAME WITH YOU?
-NO.
SO HELP ME, GOD, XAVIER,
IF YOU SAY THE OLD MAN
WOULDN'’T APPROVE ONE MO--
NO, HE
WOULD NOT.
HE'’S RIGHT. THE OLD MAN
WILL GET HER TO TALK
ONCE WE GET BACK.
TOSH: THE OLD MAN WON'’T
EVEN TALK TO US.
WE DON'’T EVEN KNOW
IF HE'’S ALIVE.
WHAT ARE WE GONNA DO,
WALK INTO THE ANOMALY
TO FIND HIM?
I'’M NOT. ARE YOU?
HOW ABOUT YOU,
ERRAND BOY?
I DIDN'’T THINK SO.
NO MORE WALKING.
WE BURN THE HEADS,
AND WE KILL THE HOST CHILD
AND THE EARTH GIRL
SO WE CAN GET--
YOU'’RE GONNA SHOOT ME NOW?
I'’D REALLY
RATHER NOT.
THE REST OF
OUR UNIT IS
EXPECTING YOU.
MOVE OUT!
YOU'’RE WELCOME.
UH!
TALK TO THEM, PLEASE.
THEY'’LL KILL
US IF YOU DON'’T.
I WON'’T LET THAT
HAPPEN.
BUT THEY'’RE MONSTERS.
SO AM I.
WOMAN: LOOK LIVELY.
THEY SHOULD BE HERE ANY MINUTE.
MM-MM.
GO ON. IT TASTES BETTER
THAN IT LOOKS.
SHE SAID NO.
YOU'’VE GOT A GRATITUDE
PROBLEM, YOU KNOW THAT?
WOMAN: THEY'’RE HERE!
DEATH TO PRIMES.
STAY QUIET, AND MAYBE
YOU'’LL LIVE.
XAVIER: OH, AND YOU'’LL
TEAR THROUGH
YOUR RADIAL ARTERY
BEFORE YOU TEAR
THROUGH THAT ROPE.
MAN: YOUR SCOUT TOLD US
THAT YOU HAD 3 PRIMES
AT THE POST.
TOSH: YES. SHE'’S A CHILD.
XAVIER WANTED TO KEEP
HER ALIVE AS A LITTLE PET.
I SAY SHE DIES NOW.
SHH. YOU'’LL BE
WITH YOUR FRIENDS SOON.
MAN ON RECORDING:
ON NAMING DAY,
BY THE LIGHT
OF THE TWO SUNS,
WE REVEAL THE DARKNESS
OF OUR PAST...
GIRL: THE LIGHTING
LOOKS NICE.
-SO CUTE...
-YEAH...
APPARENTLY,
THE LANTERNS FLOAT,
TAKING YOUR SINS WITH THEM.
HMM. IF ONLY
IT WERE THAT EASY.
MAYBE IT IS.
I WROTE DOWN
"LEAVING YOU IN POLIS."
CLARKE, STOP.
LET'’S NOT DO THIS.
WHAT I DID--LEAVING YOU
LIKE THAT--
I'’M SO SORRY, BELLAMY.
I KNOW WHAT IT'’S LIKE
TO RISK EVERYTHING
FOR ONE PERSON.
I KNOW MADI'’S YOUR
FAMILY.
HEY.
YOU ARE MY FAMILY, TOO.
I LOST SIGHT OF THAT.
BUT I PROMISE I WILL
NEVER FORGET IT AGAIN.
YOU'’RE TOO IMPORTANT TO ME.
CLARKE.
CLARKE: ARE YOU
GONNA TRY IT?
AHH. TOO MANY SINS. MY
LANTERN WOULDN'’T FLOAT.
OCTAVIA?
NO MORE AMENDS TODAY.
OK.
MAN: WE'’VE DEBATED
LONG ENOUGH.
I AGREE WITH TOSH.
KILL THE BLACK BLOOD.
ONE LESS NAMING DAY TO STOP.
YOU GONNA SHOOT
HIM NOW, TOO?
XAVIER: I'’LL SAY IT AGAIN.
WE SAVE THEM.
WE DON'’T KILL THEM.
YOU DON'’T KNOW THAT.
BUT FINE. YOU CAN TELL
THE OLD MAN
WE'’VE BECOME MURDERERS.
MAN: HEY.
TOSH: THEY'’RE GONE!
MAN: OH, NO.
XAVIER: HAVE IT YOUR WAY.
MAN: BRING THEM BACK ALIVE!
MAN: FIND '’EM!
OK. COME ON.
START.
COME ON. UH!
LOVER'’S SPAT?
YEAH. WE'’LL WORK IT OUT.
SOUNDS LIKE
A FUEL INTAKE PROBLEM.
VERY GOOD.
YOU MIND?
PLEASE.
I'’VE HAD MY FAIR SHARE
OF FIGHTS
WITH CRANKY ENGINES.
WHAT'’S YOUR PROPELLANT?
UH, ETHANOL, DISTILLED
FROM EARTH CORN.
WE JUST LET THIS ONE
SIT TOO LONG.
IT'’S MY MOTHER'S.
SHE TAUGHT ME
EVERYTHING I KNOW,
SO I FIGURED IT WAS THE LEAST
I COULD DO FOR HER TODAY.
SOUNDS LIKE YOU'’RE MISSING
A HELL OF A PARTY.
YEAH. SOMEBODY JUST
OPENED THE PALACE.
FIRST WE PARTY,
THEN WE PRAY.
NOT REALLY MY SCENE.
BESIDES, IT'’S NICE TO
BE ALONE FOR A CHANGE.
UM, WELL, YEAH, I'’LL
LEAVE YOU TO IT, THEN.
OH, I DIDN'’T MEAN YOU.
-RYKER.
-RAVEN.
OMEN OF DEATH. COOL.
ACTUALLY, THAT'’S
A MISCONCEPTION.
I HOPE SO.
LISTEN, I COULD USE
THE HANDS THAT GO
WITH THAT BRAIN, SO...
STAY HERE, OK?
MAN: ♪ SEASICK
♪ YOU WERE ALWAYS
AROUND TO MAKE ME ♪
♪ SMILE
♪ STUCK UNDERWATER
♪ I'’M STUCK UNDERWATER ♪
♪ AND I JUST NEED
SOME SPACE ♪
♪ MY FRIEND
♪ IT'’S NOT WHAT
YOU WANTED... ♪
NO, NO, NO, NO, NO.
MAN: ♪ BUT I JUST NEED
A CHANGE ♪
♪ AGAIN
MAN: ♪ HELP ME OUT
♪ BEFORE I DIE
♪ SAVE ME NOW
♪ BEFORE I GIVE UP
♪ HELP ME OUT...
HEY.
WHAT'’S WRONG?
SO THE LAST TIME I WAS
AT A PARTY,
MY SISTER WAS ARRESTED.
BELLAMY, IF YOU'’RE GONNA
TEAR YOURSELF APART
OVER LEAVING HER,
LET'’S GO GET HER.
NO, THIS ISN'’T ME TEARING
MYSELF APART, OK?
THIS IS ME BEING HUMAN--
FEELING THINGS
WHEN PEOPLE I LOVE
ARE IN TROUBLE OR DIE.
THE ECHO I KNEW
ON THE RING DID THAT.
WHY DON'’T YOU?
THIS ISN'’T ABOUT ME.
NO? WE LOST MONTY
AND HARPER 3 DAYS AGO.
HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT THAT?
'’CAUSE I HAVE NO IDEA.
I LOST MY SISTER YESTERDAY.
IT'’S GONNA TAKE ME A LITTLE
WHILE TO FEEL NOTHING,
LIKE A GOOD AZGEDA SPY.
BUT I'’LL KEEP TRYING.
COME ON.
I CAN'’T, MOMMY.
NO MORE.
ROSE, THEY'’RE TRYING
TO KILL US.
IF YOU STOP, YOU DIE.
WOMAN: EVERYBODY, SPLIT UP!
SPREAD OUT!
ROSE, LISTEN TO ME.
I KNOW YOU'’RE SCARED.
BUT FEAR IS A DEMON.
CLOSE YOUR EYES AND JUST
TELL YOURSELF
YOU'’RE NOT AFRAID.
I'’M NOT AFRAID.
GOOD. GOOD. SEE? THAT'’S
HOW YOU SLAY THE DEMON.
SO NO MATTER WHAT YOU
HEAR, YOU KEEP
YOUR EYES CLOSED,
AND YOU KEEP
SAYING IT, OK? DO IT.
I'’M NOT AFRAID.
WOMAN: I SEE THEM!
OCTAVIA: COME ON.
I'’M TAKING YOU HOME,
I PROMISE.
I'’M NOT AFRAID.
-DON'’T MOVE.
-FREEZE! THERE THEY ARE.
GO! SURROUND THEM!
NICE STICK.
ROSE, OH, THANK GOD.
NOT YET. MAKE SURE
THEY'’RE ALL DEAD.
JADE: THEY'’RE NOT.
NO. THAT ONE'’S MINE.
-UH!
JADE: NO!
I SUPPOSE OUR DEAL
IS OFF.
WHAT ARE YOU
DOING NOW?
ONE OF THEM WASN'’T HERE.
I'’M GONNA FIND HIM,
AND I'’M GONNA KILL HIM.
WAS HE THEIR LEADER?
NO. THEIR LEADER IS
SOME OLD MAN WHO--
YOU SAW HIM,
THE OLD MAN?
OCTAVIA: NO.
FROM WHAT I HEARD,
THEY DON'’T EVEN KNOW
IF HE'’S DEAD OR ALIVE.
BUT IF HE IS ALIVE
AND I KILL HIM...
THE PRIMES
WILL HONOR THE DEAL.
I'’M SURE OF IT.
THEN CONSIDER IT DONE.
GOOD LUCK.
LOOKS LIKE YOU GOT
A PARTNER.
COME ON. I'’LL TEACH YOU
HOW TO RIDE THIS THING.
WE KILL SOME TERRORISTS.
THE DEVILS FROM EARTH
BECOME
THE HEROES OF SANCTUM.
EASY PEASY.
WHAT DO YOU SAY?
I'’M IN.
DRESS LIKE
THE ENEMY. SMART.
SHUT UP.
SEE? THE BEGINNING OF
A BEAUTIFUL FRIENDSHIP.
OK.
AH. YOU GOT
IT STARTED.
I GUESS YOU'’RE PRETTY
PROUD OF YOURSELF.
I THOUGHT YOU WERE
A MECHANIC.
I AM, BUT I'’M ALSO A PRIME
WHO'’S LATE FOR THE NAMING.
WE SHOULD TAKE HER OUT
SOMETIME.
DON'’T TELL ME YOU
DON'’T RIDE.
NO, NOT YET,
BUT I'’M SURE
I CAN FIGURE IT OUT.
OF THAT I HAVE NO DOUBT.
WELL, FOR NOW, GO CLEAN UP.
WE'’LL HEAD TO THE PALACE.
IT'’S TIME FOR
THAT GOOD WINE.
OH, I CAN PROBABLY
GET YOU ON THE LIST.
WOMAN OVER P.A.: FOR THE GLORY
AND GREATNESS OF PRIMES,
THE MEETING IS
ABOUT TO BEGIN...
SHOULDN'’T WE BE
DOWN THERE?
I'’M EXACTLY WHERE
I SHOULD BE.
GLAD YOU COULD JOIN US.
RISE.
DELILAH JANICE WORKMAN,
YOU HAVE BEEN CHOSEN,
LIKE EACH OF US,
TO RECEIVE THE GREAT
MIRACLE OF THE SANCTUM.
DO YOU ACCEPT
THIS HONOR?
YES, HOLINESS, I DO.
RUSSELL: VERY WELL.
THEN COME FORWARD
AND BE SO NAMED.
DELILAH: KISS ME.
SPECTATORS: AW.
DON'’T LET ME BE A FACE
BEHIND THE GLASS.
IS IT OVER?
NOT YET.
SORRY IF I WOKE YOU.
I'’M NOT.
GOD. IT'’S
BEAUTIFUL HERE.
UNTIL AN HOUR BEFORE
THE DEVIL FELL,
GOD THOUGHT HIM
BEAUTIFUL IN HEAVEN.
IT'’S FROM "THE CRUCIBLE."
IT'’S GABRIEL'S
FAVORITE PLAY.
BANNED BY THE PRIMES,
SO DON'’T QUOTE ME.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
WELL, I...SUPPOSE
IT MEANS THAT
THERE'’S TWO SIDES
TO EVERY STORY.
SO TELL ME THE OTHER SIDE.
LET'’S JUST SAY THAT NOT
EVERYONE IN SANCTUM
BELIEVES IN THE DIVINITY
OF THE PRIMES.
DIVINITY.
I HAVE TO SEE THIS.
IT'’S A HOBBY.
YOU'’LL HAVE
TO FORGIVE ME.
NEW FACES
ARE SO MUCH MORE
INTERESTING TO DRAW.
YOU'’RE WONDERING WHY
I CIRCLED YOURS.
I'’M GUESSING IT'S BECAUSE
OF MY BLOOD.
VERY GOOD. YOU CAN
SAVE ME SOME TIME
AND TELL ME HOW MANY
OTHERS ARE LIKE YOU.
NONE. NOW, IF
YOU'’LL EXCUSE ME--
CLARKE.
I'’M NOT THE ONE THAT
YOU SHOULD BE AFRAID OF.
THEN GET OUT OF MY WAY.
CLARKE, LISTEN TO ME!
UH!
WOMAN: MIRANDA VIII.
DON'’T WORRY. IT'S
A TEMPORARY PARALYTIC.
BY THE TIME WE GET YOU TO
THE CHILDREN OF GABRIEL,
YOU'’LL BE FINE.
RUSSELL: IT IS MY GREAT
HONOR TO PRESENT
PRIYA, SEVENTH OF HER LINE.
CROWD: HALLOWED BE HER NAME.
RUSSELL: AND NOW THROUGH FIRE,
WE PURIFY SANCTUM
AND RELEASE OUR SINS.
DELILAH, HEY.
MY BEAUTIFUL BABY BOY.
I WONDER HOW MANY OF THEM
WROTE DOWN "MURDER."
I KNOW YOU'’RE SCARED.
THE CHILDREN OF GABRIEL
WON'’T HURT YOU.
HOPEFULLY, THIS GEL
WILL KEEP ME ALIVE
LONG ENOUGH
TO GET ME THROUGH
THE RADIATION SHIELD.
IF MY DEATH CAN PUT
AN END TO THE PRIMES,
THEN IT'’S WORTH IT.
GOING SOMEWHERE?
CILLIAN: YOU CAN'’T
LET THEM HAVE ANOTHER HOST.
I'’M SORRY, CLARKE.
GUARD: STOP HIM NOW.
GOOD. NOW SEND
FOR RUSSELL PRIME.
CILLIAN: THEY'’LL GET
NOTHING FROM ME.
DEATH TO PRIMES.
HEY.
LOOK, I'’M A JERK.
I WAS TAKING MY FEELINGS
ABOUT OCTAVIA OUT ON YOU.
AND I'’M SORRY.
I DO MISS THEM.
MONTY AND HARPER.
I MAY NOT SHOW IT, BUT I DO.
I KNOW.
YOU WERE RIGHT.
I FEEL MYSELF
CLOSING DOWN AGAIN.
OF COURSE YOU ARE.
WE'’VE BEEN FIGHTING
TO SURVIVE
SINCE THE MOMENT WE
LEFT THE RING.
I'’VE BEEN FIGHTING TO
SURVIVE ALL MY LIFE.
I WAS 8...
WHEN QUEEN NIA'’S ARMY
TOOK OUR LAND.
MY FATHER RESISTED.
THEY KILLED HIM
WHILE MY MOTHER HID
WITH ME IN THE CELLAR.
"IF YOU CRY, THEY'’LL
HEAR YOU," SHE SAID.
SO I DIDN'’T.
YOU TOLD ME YOU DIDN'’T
REMEMBER YOUR PARENTS.
BEST WAY TO GET RATS
OUT OF THEIR HOLE--
START A FIRE.
I REMEMBER
THE WAY IT SMELLED.
BUT...
THE SMOKE...
HER HAIR...
WHEN NIA HEARD
WHAT HAPPENED,
SHE EXECUTED THE MEN
WHO DID IT,
HAD ME BROUGHT TO TROY,
AND STARTED MY TRAINING.
COME HERE.
I HATE THAT THAT
HAPPENED TO YOU.
BUT EVERYTHING WE'’VE
BEEN THROUGH
HAS BROUGHT US HERE.
FROM NOW ON,
WE LOOK FORWARD,
NOT BACK.
RUSSELL: LAY HER ON THE TABLE
AND LEAVE US.
WHAT IS THIS?
CILLIAN WAS THE TRAITOR.
HE KILLED HIMSELF BUT NOT
BEFORE USING THE PARALYTIC
ON CLARKE.
RUSSELL, WHY
HAVEN'’T YOU USED
THE ANTIDOTE?
YOU KNOW WHY.
SHE HAS THE BLOOD.
TELL ME NOT TO DO THIS,
AND I WON'’T, SIMONE.
JADE IS BACK.
ROSE IS DEAD.
RUSSELL: OK.
SO HERE'’S THE MATH.
THERE ARE NO MORE HOSTS.
IT WAS 14 YEARS BETWEEN
ROSE AND DELILAH--14 YEARS.
JOSIE'’S STILL THIRD IN LINE.
THAT MEANS HER HOST WON'’T BE
BORN FOR AT BEST 35 YEARS.
ANOTHER 21 UNTIL
HER BRAIN IS READY.
WE CAN WAIT 56 YEARS FOR
OUR BABY GIRL'’S NAMING DAY,
OR WE CAN GET HIM BACK
TONIGHT.
ALL WE HAVE TO DO IS
KILL THIS INNOCENT GIRL.
I'’LL PREP FOR INSERTION.
YOU CLEAR THE HOST.
I'’M SORRY, CLARKE.
I TRULY AM.
SHH. PLEASE
DON'’T CRY. PLEASE.
I PROMISE
YOU WON'’T FEEL PAIN.
THE MIND OF THE HOST
IS ERASED,
BUT THE BRAIN IS LEFT
UNHARMED.
YOU'’RE GIVING US SUCH A GIFT,
CLARKE,
SACRIFICING YOUR BODY SO THAT
SOMEONE ELSE MIGHT LIVE.
SIMONE: HEY. LISTEN TO ME.
THIS WAS MEANT TO BE.
AFTER 236 YEARS,
JUST AS WE'’RE ON
THE BRINK OF MORTALITY,
A SHIP ARRIVES CARRYING
THIS PERFECT VESSEL.
THIS WAS MEANT TO BE.
RUSSELL: NO MORE FIGHTING,
CLARKE. BE AT PEACE.
A BETTER PLACE, JUST
LIKE YOU SAID YOU WANTED.
THANK YOU FOR THIS.
HERE SHE COMES.
BRAIN ACTIVITY
RETURNING.
ADMINISTERING
THE ANTIDOTE TO
THE PARALYTIC NOW.
JOSEPHINE? JOSEPHINE,
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
BLINK IF YOU CAN HEAR ME,
SWEETHEART.
IT'’S OK. YOU'RE NOT
FALLING. YOU'’RE SAFE.
I HATE THIS PART. IT
NEVER GETS ANY EASIER.
BREATHE. BREATHE,
MY BEAUTIFUL BABY GIRL.
IN.
DAD?
YEAH, YEAH.
MOM?
OH, MY GOD.
-OH, MY GOD.
-WELCOME HOME, BABY.
SIMONE: THE SUTURES
ARE HOLDING.
BUT TAKE IT SLOW.
STOP WITH THE HAIR.
NOW, THIS I CAN WORK WITH.